30 Minutes Human # 7
Burning, Warrior, Medieval Fantasy, Aftermath, Village
July 21, 2025

Huge swaths of burned forest covered the ground below. Some of the terrain had survived the fire, but that was the exception; bright blotches on an otherwise blackened land.
They would have to clear it away. Or would they? Old wisdom might suggest that the smoked-out carcasses of once-mighty elms and firs would be better feeding for the new vegetation that would eventually emerge, but that would take decades. Anything there would take decades either way, though.
Or what about using the land as farmland? Doubtful, for the King had always been proud of his generational forest, but if there was a moment for change, this was it. But he doubted that it would fly, as the King and Prince Eriln would want their legacy (how they cared about legacy!) to be a reborn forest.
He’d float his thoughts by Elder Snaw either way.
She approached by his side, her skeletal mare complementing the dead view below them. She said nothing and gazed down at the disaster. Her mind seemed to wander as her gaze remained fixed, and he wondered how many such landscapes she’d witnessed in her unguessably long years.
Eventually he turned and rode back to camp, and she followed. Vegetation below had suffered, but no more than the fighting men. They passed three piles of dead warriors stacked one atop the other like lumber, and something within him stirred when he saw that some of the hands that lay still were no bigger than that of Knoll. These were boys who had not known the touch of a woman before knowing the kiss of death.
The stacking of the dead was indiscriminate. Vermilion armor could be seen in the piles, suggesting just how many knights had fallen before the onslaught of the Burning. He suspected that all of them would be laying like that, not piled up, but simply with empty eyes or even blackened eye-holes, if the rain had not come.
He glanced at her again. She had simply said that it hadn’t been her, and the way she’d said it had been believable. You shouldn’t trust a Talker, of course, but whether or not she’d spoken truth, her denial was worthy of note.
The women of Skardon had left the protection of the village once they’d heard the horn, and he had, as always, been proud of how they’d acted. They’d taken the death of their fathers, husbands, and sons like tempered steel glances a blow and gotten to work on those who’d survived. Grief might come later. He wouldn’t want to be in the place of one of the Cowards in town when everybody returned.
Marshall Luiz was giving orders in the command tent when they arrived. There wasn’t much more for warriors to do, or at least not as such, given that the Burning had been entirely extinguished. There was no sign of Burning in any direction, as confirmed by the Hawkers. The warriors would thus become laborers, and they would fall temporarily under the command of the Mayoress of Skardon.
He found himself alone as he dismounted Young Sy; the Talker’s path had left his as his thoughts were elsewhere. Marshall Luiz saw him approach and gave a questioning look, concern in his eyes. He shook his head in response. They were safe. They could get to healing and rebuilding. The Marshall seemed to breathe out and grow a year or two younger, though no younger than that.
The two spoke for some time. They debated their course of action, discussing what to do with the fallen, what to do with the injured, and what to do with the healthy. They spent some time planning new watchtowers on these hills; although the Burning rarely struck the same area twice, one couldn’t be too careful.
The Marshall asked him to ride to town and speak with the Mayoress, then take her observations and requests to Harrit. The King should know everything, both what had transpired and what they planned to do about it. The specifics here would not trouble him much, though he’d want to know that all problems were being addressed. And he’d want to know where they might strike again.
The question of the Talker didn’t arise. She was out of their control, and by all accounts seemed to have been little more than an onlooker in what had transpired. He’d discuss her alleged innocence with Elder Snaw, but that would be as far as he would be involved; the Elders would discuss among themselves and give the King council accordingly.
The ride to Skardon didn’t take long. As he approached, he was greeted by the trumpets of the guard, and flags were waved by the young woman atop the gate. Despite the misery and death of the camp he’d just left, these people were fortunate to be alive, and they knew it. Recovery would be difficult, but infinitely preferable to being the charred husk of ‘where Skardon used to be’.
He rode through the gates and saw great activity. The Skardans were known for their common sense, and the Mayoress there had always been wise in communication; the people would know what they would have to do, what was expected of them. He glanced once again at the hanging cage of the Cowards and felt some pity for them. He knew that combat wasn’t for everybody, and knew that bright, jolly, creative men would burn. The kind of men the kingdom could benefit from. But that was far from anything he could influence, so he put it out of his mind.
As he wasn’t urgently expected, he tied his horse outside the bakery.

[Author’s notes: I’d wanted to do one without dialogue and enjoyed pumping this one out. I’ll probably do no-dialogue every so often. I’d also like to do one where only one character has dialogue (and there are other characters), but that’ll be an exercise for another day. As to the plot above, it’s tough to step away from the usual tropes of medieval fantasy when you’re just letting the words flow; detailed, deliberate worldbuilding doesn’t just happen instantly. As an additional note, I envisioned the Burning as a horde of relatively short-statured goblins/orcs that are always on fire, but since I didn’t get to describe, the reader may imagine the Burning as the reader pleases.]
