30 Minutes Human # 5
Hospital, Injury, Swimming, Family
July 18, 2025

“Well, come on, doc. Tell us.”
The doctor looked at the three of them in turn. At Enrique, with his dark, curly hair, long neck, and ruffled polo collar, at Luisa, short and brown skinned with an orange sweater and glasses that made her look like a discount Velma Dinkley, and at Carmenza, always tall and regal-looking to a fault, though today looking slightly diminished, this at least partially a consequence of her thick green woolen pullover.
Carmenza was the most worried of the three, but she was also the one whose fear was least reflected in her demeanor. Carmenza actually understood what the potential bad news meant for all of them.
“First of all,” the doctor said, “the surgery went well. Fulgencio is still a bit groggy from the anesthetic, but he should be alert and with his hearty appetite back within a couple of hours.”
Alright. That’s good news, they each thought. They nodded but kept quiet.
“His knee will partially recover. There was a lot of damage to…”
At that point the three of them mentally stepped away. The knee was not well. So it would never be well. Not entirely well. They’d been warned about this possibility (probability), but always held on to a thin sliver of hope that anatomy and good luck might get them through this. But no: the knee will partially recover.
No more swimming, then. No more medals, no more scouts, no more talk of a big scholarship. No more looking out the window when the bus crossed the nice part of town and thinking maybe.
Luisa stopped herself at that one. Not only was that unfair, but it was also inaccurate. There were other ways to succeed, to get out of the hole. All the other ways. Sure, Fulge’s swimming had become, at least for a while, a blinding beacon that kept the family on a single narrative, but all other avenues were still there. They’d have to look to those again.
Enrique thought about it through Fulgencio’s eyes. Fulgencio would often point out streets and even houses he wanted to live in after he came back from university, maybe back from the Olympics. His cousin had poured his entire life into the pool, leaving room for no Plan Bs; his grades were terrible. That dream of somewhere nice to live would recede quickly. Unless there was a Plan B, but that was more Luisa’s department.
Carmenza’s heart was split in two. One half ached for her nephew’s dreams and hopes, for the bright future that had been laying itself out before the damn kettle exploded. That was done. She also thought of Enrique. Her son had never been ambitious or disciplined, and the idea of an Olympian relative had ended up casting any academic focus out the window. Both boys would have a shattered window to piece together, and you can’t go from dust to form again.
The other half of her heart ached for the tragedy that was soon to come. She could no longer hide behind the promise of a scholarship, athletic success, and fame. They would lose the house by the end of the year; there would now be no hiding the sun behind a coin for long.
“...therapy, exercise, and rest, he may be walking again by September.”
“And swimming?” asked Enrique. The question was mostly a formality.
“Swimming will be a great recovery exercise.” The doctor saw Enrique begin to form a new question and preempted it. “Professional swimming, though, which I suspect is what you’re asking about… well, I suggest you wait until this phase of recovery is past before that’s even discussed with Fulgencio’s physician.”
Seeing no further questions, he asked “Would you like to see him?”
“Of course,” said Carmenza.
They stepped through the double doors they’d been staring at for hours and down a couple of hallways that took them to an open door marked “304”. Inside lay Fulgencio on a bed, a colossal cast enveloping his entire right leg. The bruises and scratches over the rest of his body were still there, an unpleasant reminder of the context that brought them there.
“Fulgencio, your family’s here,” said the doctor. Suddenly evidencing little interest in sticking around, he added, “Visiting hours until 8:30. Since he’s not an at-risk patient, no visitors can remain overnight.” The man in the white coat, whose name none of them remembered, then vanished back out into the hallway, his mind on other patients and on the fact that he had to purchase asparagus (both green and white) on the way home. They would not see him again.
“Fulge,” said Luisa. “How are you feeling?”
“Lú, ven acá.” He held out his hand to her and she took it, gently approaching his side.
“It was good, no? Tía? Enrique? It was good, the dream was good, no?”
Luisa squeezed his hand but said nothing, and Enrique stood dumbly at the foot of the bed. Carmenza took a step toward her nephew.
“Mijo, don’t think like that. I’d tell you not to think about that at all, but…” she twisted her mouth. Then she shrugged. “Mañana viene otro día. For now recover hijo, then we’ll see what follows.”
Enrique pulled her aside. “Mamá, let’s leave them alone for a bit. We’ll be right outside. Ven, Ma.” He  led his mother outside, where they’d proceed to stand in the hallway by the doorway and say nothing to each other, each lost in thought.
“Lú. It’s all fucked,” said Fulgencio.

[Author’s notes: I meant for this to be a romantic piece until the last instant, and then suddenly we were in the hospital, and bad news was coming. I didn’t like the fact that the narrative was moving slowly, but now that I think back on it, I think it was a decent examination of four individuals looking at a shared tragedy when it’s just landed on their laps.]
