30 Minutes Human # 4
Light, Cat, Explosion, Neighbors
July 17, 2025

The cat leapt up on the windowsill and followed the thread of green light that snaked from there to the cabinet by the door. It ended on the corner of the wooden frame, and there burrowed into the wall.
Curious, thought the cat. I’ve never seen anything that does this. He went out to the hall and checked the wall from there, but nothing came through. The light was entering the wall, but it wasn’t coming out.
He tried to get through the wall itself, springing into mighty leaps from the hallway floor to scratch the wall at the right height, but quickly gave up on that. He’d just make a mess, and that would tick off the human and perhaps impact his following meal. Perhaps the other end of the “string”, then.
He stepped out through the small swinging metal door that led to the front porch and went to the kitchen window, though he found what he sought before reaching it. The thread of green light hung from there to the pear tree across the neighbor’s fence, and there got lost in the foliage.
He sprang up to get a better look, and perhaps a feel for the thing. He didn’t trust it, but also didn’t know the old human adage about curiosity and cats, so he wasn’t as cognizant of the risks as he otherwise might’ve been. But not knowing risks can often result in greater outcomes, of course; these things often go both ways.
Against the branches of the tree the light indeed acted like a thread. It pulsated, sometimes so that it grew thicker than the twigs it hugged (although pear trees aren’t known for terribly sturdy twigs), and sometimes the pulsing staggered off-rhythm, but it did seem to fall under the tug of gravity.
He looked at it closely, following its path through and out the other side, up toward the roof of the neighboring house, and then even more closely, getting a feel for how the light came and went. Then he tapped it lightly, playfully, first to know how it felt (rubbery and hard, like a cable) then to know if it moved (which it didn’t, or at least not in response to the force he applied) and finally how it tasted and if he could pierce it with
The metallic screech reverberated through his head. He felt it in his paws, in his torso, in his tail, all the way back, all the way hence, like this wave was bouncing back and forth within him and only got stronger with each bounce.
“KUUUUUU KUUUUUU WAAAAAA KUUUUUUU,” felt the cat, and then exploded.
* * *
The little girl who found the cat’s head was about five. She’d been hosting an important tea party across the street from where the pear tree sat; if she was lucky, she’d be able to iron out this mess between Mr. Hokey, Barbie, and the train conductor so they could all resume regular business. Barbie and Mr. Hokey both wanted to ride the train on the weekends, and not only did they not both fit, but the conductor didn’t wish to take orders from anyone. She’d been making progress; the sweet cookies she’d pinched had served to calm tensions.
She stepped away from the picnic blanket for a moment, knowing that sometimes it was healthy to allow them to speak without being overheard. It was then that she spotted something under the shrubbery between her house and Mrs. Beyand’s. It looked like an old apple, but it might also be a ball of some sort.
Alas, it was a cat’s head, and only one of the eyes remained in its socket. Her screams were heard all the way down to Pike Wilson’s house.
* * *
There was an emergency meeting that night. It was generally difficult to gather the neighborhood with even a month’s notice, but the news that somebody had exploded the Johnsons’ cat (Frawley, by name) had brought even the most challenging social schedule to heel. Violence in the neighborhood would not do. They didn’t all have pets, but some had kids, and others had but themselves and their lawns, but even so. Whatever this was had to end here, before it picked up steam.
“Quiet, please. Everybody.” Pike Wilson was head of the Neighborhood Association that year. This was a good thing, given that other characters may have been less capable of addressing the crisis. Unfortunately, those other characters were jealous that Pike was in command in this moment of importance, and didn’t care to make this easier for him.
“Everybody. Quiet. Come on, neighbors.” He didn’t want to raise his voice (indeed, he wasn’t any good at it), and had never been faced with the need to do so. This group tended to be fairly tame, but the trading of theories, possibilities, and hypotheses made for an electricity that would not taper off.
“People, be quiet, PLEASE! Let’s do what we came to do, as a GROUP!” Annie Wallez did not share Pike’s aversion to being loud, and she wanted to get this started. She had a cat and a kid of her own, so she was particularly invested. A loud snort from Karen Johnson, who was weeping her Frawley’s death in the corner, complemented Annie’s words and achieved the silence they sought.
Pike thanked everybody for their silence and presence, and then laid out their purpose and the facts. They were there to determine how to proceed given what had happened to Frawley and then to little Patricia, whose parents sat silent and angry in the second row. They all agreed that whatever this was should be a single-incident situation. And all they knew was that the cat had exploded in the Wembley’s pear tree, exploded mid-torso, and that this had sent cat remains across six different properties.
The police had stopped by, of course, and nobody could say that they had treated the matter with a lack of seriousness, but after a couple of hours they concluded that the cat may have eaten a firecracker or somehow been electrocuted, and they’d gone their way. “No signs of foul play, I’m sorry about your cat,” the officer had said to nobody in particular before driving off.
“So where do we go from here?” asked Ben Wembley. “I’m happy to climb into my tree tomorrow and comb it over to see what I find. The ground below as well. Steve, help me out?”
Steve nodded. He and Ben had been best friends for over a decade, so his assistance all but went without saying.

[Author’s note: I had no idea where this was going. I liked to write from the cat’s perspective, as well as from the girl’s, but the story didn’t allow me to have either for long.]
