30 Minutes Human # 8
Trapped, Classroom, Alone, Wallpaper, Restroom
July 23, 2025

Why there weren’t any people in the room was a question for another day. She should probably first focus on understanding why the room didn’t have any windows, or even more importantly, why the door had so clearly just clicked shut behind her.
She turned and, to her dread and disappointing lack of surprise, found no handle on this side. She tried to tug at the sides, and that worked about as well as pushing. Nothing. She spent several minutes on it, trying everything that came to mind, all to no avail. She wouldn’t be opening that door herself.
“Hello!?” she yelled. There were supposed to be people here. There evidently weren’t. There was no exit. She was alone. And given what she’d seen since walking in, she was quite possibly alone in the building.
“HELLO?! Anyone?” She didn’t know why she was yelling. It just felt like the right thing to do. But then it felt foolish, so she decided to explore the room she’d inadvertently locked herself into.
It was a classroom, or at least felt like one. There were desks that looked about right for fifth graders, a bookshelf with a few dozen books, and old TV, and an odd-looking device that featured something like a periscope that loomed above a glass plate. She’d seen those somewhere when she was young. She considered plugging it in to see what it did but saw no evident electric outlets.
Most of the desks were arranged facing a corner where there was a bean-bag chair that could comfortably sit an adult. She prodded it with her toe, and the beans within gave as she expected.
That was it—everything in the room. She went back to the door and tried it again a couple of times, a mild feeling of despair creeping up from the bottom of her gut. It was too early to despair, wasn’t it? But she wanted out. The room didn’t give her bad vibes, but she simply didn’t want to be there. And decidedly not if it was against her will.
She decided to explore the bookshelf, see if she found anything there. They were mostly early-reader books, with a couple of textbooks of what might be middle-school biology and an illustrated psychology tome on how to deal with rebellious teens. Nothing of value. Nothing that might help.
What about the walls? Were they all solid? The hallway she’d walked down was of drab concrete walls, but these were wallpapered with a harmless, unfaded beige monotone. She tapped at it lightly and felt no give; it was still concrete here. But on a whim she tapped on a few different spots and found a more gentle surface opposite the direction the desks all faced.
So could she break through this? She tapped around and found what felt like a door, and closer examination revealed a very light vertical seam beneath the wallpaper. Alright. The wallpaper had to go.
She pulled her keys from her pockets and used the laundromat one (no need to damage the more important ones) to slice the wallpaper down the seam of the door. It was well pasted, but after a few minutes she managed to remove enough to confirm the suspected doorway. She tore down to where the handle should roughly be but found nothing; trying the right side proved to be more successful. There was some sort of foam block wedged into the handle hole, and she popped it in. The foam block fell down the other side.
She looked through and saw that the next room was dark. The iffy light from the classroom didn’t reveal anything. She tore the rest of the wallpaper off, making a mental note to try the rest of what seemed to be drywall afterwards, and soon found herself facing the full, uncovered wooden panel. It was painted light yellow and thus blended in well with the wallpaper that had covered it.
She pulled and pushed, but it didn’t move. Then she noted the lack of hinges, figured that they were on the other side, and pushed harder, but that didn’t work either. She inserted her hand through the handle hole and felt around, found a metal wedge on the internal side, pulled it out, pocketed it, and tried again. The door opened.
It was a restroom. White tiled, clean, with a toilet, a sink, and a mirror cabinet above the sink. A cup with three toothbrushes sat on the sink, and the cabinet held nothing save a single shaving razor and an “Admit One” ticket that was so fresh it might’ve been printed the previous day.
She tried the faucet handles. The right one did nothing, but the left one produced a healthy stream of water, which easily went down the drain. No clog! Then she flushed the toilet and it worked as it should; the water tank at the back also properly filled back up. Realizing that she hadn’t used the restroom since getting up that morning, she took a moment to relieve herself. Might as well.
She thought of air. Was there enough air flow here? She’d suddenly realized that she might be trapped here for some time and that the door she’d entered through was solid metal that scraped above, below, and to the sides; was there risk of asphyxia? There were no air vents on the ceiling, either.
She took a sip of water from the sink and thought to try the drywall by the bathroom door; perhaps there was a way out through that. That thought quickly left her mind as the water burned in her throat and she found herself dizzy and off-balance. She managed to lean on the wall before collapsing, and knew no more for a time.
When she woke up, everything around was dark, though layered over with a mild red glow.

[Author’s note: I had no idea where this was going, and was never hit by a flash of inspiration about where to take it, so it kinda went nowhere. I don’t think her lack of panic or of focusing more on immediate escape were very realistic. This was perhaps too video-game or creepypasta-inspired, save that creepiness was never actually activated.]
