30 Minutes Human # 6
Crush, Middle School, Best Friends, Love Letter
July 20, 2025

•	BLUE EYES
•	BLONDE HAIR
“You can’t think of anything other than how she looks?”
“It’s the first thing that comes to mind when I think of her. Wait.”
•	TALL
•	SO BEAUTIFUL
Web rolled his eyes but didn’t say anything.
•	HER SMILE
•	I DON’T MIND THE BRACES
Scrappy crossed the last line out, then opened parentheses by the previous line, and finally just sighed, gave up, and continued.
•	THE WAY SHE LAUGHS
•	THE WAY SHE GETS EXCITED WITH DOGS
Web thought of offering an encouraging word at this point but thought better of it.
•	HOW SHE GETS EXCITED WHEN SHE’S FIGURING OUT A MATH PROBLEM
•	HOW SHE LIKE FOCUSES
•	HOW SHE LOOKS WHEN SHE’S WALKING DOWN THE HALL AND THINKING ABOUT SOMETHING ELSE
•	THE OVERALL LOOK
Web snorted, but Scrappy ignored it.
•	HOW SHE’S NEVER ENTIRELY THERE WHEN SHE’S TALKING WITH THE OTHER GIRLS
•	THAT FACE SHE MAKES WHEN SHE’S DANCING
“Alright, good,” said Web. “You’re on a roll. I’m gonna get a drink, you keep doing this.”
Scrappy finished his list about twenty minutes later. Upon initial review, he noted that he’d made the point about the dogs twice.
“This is what I could come up with. I’ve thought of other stuff, but it comes down to this, I guess.”
“Alright. Let’s get to work.”
Scrappy thought that’s what they’d been doing so far, but just nodded and put pen to paper again. “Alright.”
“No, let’s do this on the laptop. It’s a different type of thinking process, works better typing and deleting than with a pen.”
As he unlocked his laptop, Scrappy started. “Oh, wait! This one’s important!” He picked up the pen and wrote:
•	HOW MAD SHE GOT WHEN MR. BEVERLY ACCUSED HER OF CHEATING
“Nice one. Passion. Fire. Alright, now we figure out if we want like poem or a letter.”
“A poem? Come on, dude. What are we even doing. I don’t think you actually know anything about this. Did you really kiss Billie? I think you’re gonna come up with something stupid. And ruin everything.”
“Of course I kissed Billie. Twice. Have some faith, I’ll show you the way. Alright, let’s do a letter. Remember, you have to tell her what you like about her, but also be cold and distant. Well, not cold. But act like, ‘whatever, if you don’t like me, I don’t care’.”
“What if this gets out? Remember when we were in sixth grade—”
“You need to stop bringing that up. That guy had it coming. He left the letter in her locker.”
“Alright, stop. What if I just talk to her and tell her?” Scrappy stood up, put his hands in his pockets, and walked to the window. “I should just do that.”
“You’ve been saying that since like Halloween. We make a plan and it’s a great plan and at the last second you chicken out. We need a Plan B.”
“We?”
“Yes!” exclaimed Web. “I’m not going to have a moment’s peace until this girl gives you the special smile and you like hold hands or whatever. Come on, man.”
An old red car went down Scrappy’s street. It was well taken care of, and the white-haired guy at the wheel looked pretty happy. Or carefree, at least. It was tough to tell because he was far and was wearing sunglasses, but at least he wasn’t in this room working on this damn letter.
“Alright. But you know, you’re gonna write it. You’re the better writer. We’ll outline it and you write it.”
“Yes. Fine.” Web shifted the laptop and popped a fresh file. “Alright. Here goes.”
| Dear Tutu,
| I need you to know how I feel about you, because I haven’t had the balls to
“Whoa! What the hell, man?! You’re already making me look like a moron!”
“Man, come on. I read about this.” Web put on his best wisdom voice. “You need to come off as vulnerable. Just a bit at least. And grounded. Yeah, grounded.” That word might be his contribution to seduction lore. Here he was, building with the best of them.
“Alright,” said Scrappy. “But what about Tutu? Don’t we call her by her real name?”
“What’s her real name?”
“It’s Denise. Yeah. Write ‘Dear Denise’. No, not even. Just ‘Denise’. So it like comes from the heart.”
Web liked that, so he didn’t push back. He continued:
| Denise,
| I need you to know how I feel about you, because I haven’t had the balls to tell you in person. I’m crazy about you. The time you got all up in Mr. Beverly’s face when he accused you of cheating on the geography test I wanted to stand up and kiss you. If you’d been wearing your overalls maybe I would’ve.
Scrappy felt himself go pale. This was never going to work. He’d never in a million years go through with this. He felt despair rise within him like a liter of Pepsi caught off-guard by a Mento and stepped back to the window, then to the closet. On the way he kicked the long-sleeved blue jersey that always seemed to find its way to the floor despite the fact that he never used it.
“Would you say her eyes are like crystals or like sapphires?” asked Web, turning his head. “What are you doing back there? Come take a look, this is good stuff.”
“Dude, I can’t do this. I’m just imagining it. Like giving it to her. If she laughs at me, or just like gives it back to me saying ‘I’m sorry Scrappy’, and then walks off. And like if she blushed while reading it I’d literally go crazy. Like standing there. Crazy.”
To his own surprise, Web didn’t immediately respond. He looked at his best friend, messy haired, in a blue t-shirt that he only wore at home, a white sock he’d at some point picked up dangling from his left hand. He just looked at him and, for a change, thought. Maybe there was a better way to do this.
“Alright. I have an idea. We’re going to mitigate risk. I’ve heard my dad say that a lot in his work calls. We’re going to ‘mitigate risk’. This is how we’re gonna do it.”

[Author’s notes: I’ve wanted to do something like this since I finished the previous one, #5. Middle-school and early-high-school crushes are the some worst things a person can experience, and this is made no easier by the fact that just about all of us go through them. I had this vision of Web drawing Tutu to a tree where Scrappy would be waiting with a very brief note in hand, but alas, time ran out.]
