30 Minutes Human # 9
Ducks, Gosling, Dog, Path, Stuck
July 26, 2025

The ducks were walking down the road in a perfect line, Papa Duck ahead of Mama Duck ahead of four little ducklings. At the end trooped a gosling, but nobody would confuse it with an ugly duckling; the gosling was, by far, the most beautiful animal in the formation. They weren’t walking in perfect step, but there was no disarray to the march, either. Wherever they were going, they were all of a mind to arrive there.
Eventually they came to a fork in the road, and lying across the right-hand path was a rather enormous dog. A Saint Bernard, some might say, but this linear arrangement of fowl only thought of it as big. Papa Duck considered his options, bearing in mind that he was responsible for all that stood behind him, and decided to go right. The dog was a good omen. There would be protection and plenty in that direction.
He was careful, of course, not to wake the sizeable canine. He stepped behind it, slightly off-path, having pre-warned Mama Duck to wait until he identified safe passage. To do this he had to step off the road for a moment, and he found that the dirt underfoot was a bit wet, if manageably so. Once he confirmed that footing back to the road beyond the dog was viable, he signaled to his mate that they should follow.
The third duckling, whom we will refer to as Qwick, was the one that stepped a bit more to the side than her parents had and found herself in muck that she could not get out of. She started quacking mightily, fluttering her wings like a mad hen, and this in turn led the fourth duckling to race on ahead and the gosling to return to the road. The gosling was now on the other side of the dog by himself. That’s when dog woke up.
The dog was eight or nine years old, had seen his fair share of life and living, and that morning had decided to lay on this spot of path where he knew the ground to be unusually warm. On a fine day like this one, a nap was something to treasure.
The quacking, fluttering, and general ruckus pulled him from a pleasant dream that he immediately forgot. To his left he saw a terrified gosling, and he turned in its direction. This led him to see Qwick and the rest of the ducks. The three ducklings fled a brief distance, Mama Duck looked torn between her two groups of children, and Papa Duck wondered if this was a friendly dog or if he would be facing a battle that would likely end in his passing.
The dog’s first thought (after understanding the situation before him) was to wonder about the gosling. He’d never heard the Danish tale, of course, but he knew a duck for a duck and a goose for a goose, and he found this arrangement curious. But the evident panic in Qwick’s quacks drew his attention back to the side of the road, and he got to his feet and approached.
Papa Duck knew terror then. Not terror for himself, or at least not yet, but terror for his child. Qwick was the only hen among his children, and she’d developed a strong personality through dealing with the drakes when they picked on her. He realized, almost consciously, that she was his favorite offspring. But he knew it didn’t make sense to leap in and protect her, not if he might perhaps keep the rest of them alive.
But before he could turn and lead a retreat, he saw the dog approach his little one and, with surprising gentleness, stick his paw in the dirt and prod her up and towards drier ground. Qwick tumbled forward safely, and then, scared stiff, tried to run to her parents only to trip and fall again. She was too covered in dirt to properly move. The dog, understanding the effect of his presence, took a few steps back.
The gosling decided to attack. He didn’t know why, but it felt like the right thing to do; the instinct of geese is something that far defies any rational understanding. He charged, beak forward, wings aloft, and collided with the belly of the dog who’d just taken a seat.
The dog had experience with geese, of course. And ducks, and chickens, and peacocks, and all sorts of fowl and birds, including a memorable incident that involved a flamingo and a hedgehog. He knew how prone to these charges they were, and took neither damage nor offense from the gosling’s warlike dive. The gosling had bounced off him, bounced like a pinecone off a pine trunk, and now sat before him as if awaiting instruction.
The little goose looked up at the dog, and the dog looked back. Then, as one, they looked toward Qwick.
Papa Duck had indicated to his mate that she go to the ducklings and step a few yards further away, and then turned his attention to his daughter. The initial terror of her encounter with the colossal mammal had receded, and she now suffered from a sad combination of fear, confusion, sadness, and exhaustion. She’d been wanting rest throughout the previous hour, but had kept from suggesting otherwise to not appear weak before her brothers.
Seeing her father approach lifted her spirits. She allowed him to prop her up with his bill, and he did what he could to scrape the fresh muck from her feet, torso, and wings. Once or twice he glanced toward the dog, but the sight of him sitting almost conspiratorially with the gosling told him that the large animal wasn’t a threat.
Qwick and her father returned to the road and she rejoined her siblings, none of whom showed any interest in giving her a hard time. None would express it, of course, but they were glad that their sister was fine, and had, like their father, momentarily feared much more for her wellbeing than for their own. They would eventually leverage this incident for months of playful harassment, but that would come later, when this morning’s event were little more than memory.
Papa Duck approached the dog and the gosling. He stopped a respectful distance away, quacked once and then twice at the dog, and turned his eyes to the gosling. The gosling looked at him, looked at the dog, looked back at him, and then honked once.
Papa Duck understood. He fluttered his wings at the brave little gooseling and returned to his family. The ducklings all quacked their goodbyes at their temporary and gorgeous companion and then went their way. Mama Duck stayed a moment longer, feeling more regret than she would’ve expected because of this parting, and then waddled off to catch up with her clan.
The gosling looked back up at the dog, whose attention remained on the parting ducks for a little while. Then he looked down at the gosling and grunted. The gosling honked. The dog stood, returned to his spot on the road, and settled in for the rest of his nap.
The gosling sensed how good an idea this was and, after checking all sides of the gigantic brown-and-white animal, climbed on his rear left paw, made himself comfortable, and fell asleep as well.

[Author’s notes: One of my best so far; I really like how this one turned out. It was also free of dialogue, but unlike the previous one where I made a point of that as a sort of exercise, here it just made sense. It kept the animals animals without making this fantastic or too anthropomorphic, and it was interesting to play with their expression and communication under that lens. This could be considered self-standing, but could also be at the beginning or middle of a larger tale.]
