30 Minutes Human # 12
Gangsters, Disrespect, Pizzeria, Ambush
July 31, 2025

Walking down the street was no way to make his presence known to his adversaries. This wouldn’t do. He yanked Snob by the rear collar of his jacket and dragged him into an alley.
“Whaddaya think you’re doing, jackass? You want everybody to see us? Just wave a fuckin’ flag why don’t ya?”
“Sorry Bruno, you said, you said let’s go this way, I—”
“You’re saying it’s my fault, you fuck?” He threw him against the brick wall, displacing two trashcans that happened to be in the way. The contents of one of them smelled particularly foul. Maybe he’d drop the kid onto the mess to make his point.
“No Bruno, of course not, no, I… sorry, Bruno. Sorry.” Bruno felt him go limp. There was no fight in this one. There never was.
Even so, he had to make his point. Still holding on to the jacket, he brought his face close, whispered, “I thought so,” and threw him down on the trash he thought wasn’t the stinky one. It wouldn’t do to walk around with a clown that smelled of bad egg and diapers.
As Snob got to his feet, Bruno brushed off his trench coat and fixed his own collar. He’d bought it down on West Park for $45, and figured he’d gotten a great deal. It was new and of a fancy brand, and dark green that made him look military. He didn’t like grunts, but this made him look like an officer.
“Come on,” he told the younger man. They walked to the other end of the alley and, instead of returning to the street, entered a pizzeria. Staying out of sight would be useful, and Snob would be able to make amends by buying him a slice.
“You smell like shit. Take that shit off.” Snob looked torn, but had long ago learned not to argue, so he stepped back into the alley to hide the jacket somewhere he could pick it up from later.
It was early, so most of the seats in the restaurant were available. He picked a stool at the bar and asked the bored-looking attendant behind it to give him a slice of mushroom sausage.
“We don’t have that. This is what we got,” the attendant said, waving at what was on display behind the glass.
“The fuck did you say to me?” He’d already been disrespected by one little shit today, two wouldn’t do at all. Did he have a fucking clown nose on his face or something?
“Sorry, sir. We don’t have—”
“Stan, Stan, go to the back.” And middle-aged man with a dark mustache and a clean apron joined his employee behind the bar and tipped his head to confirm his instruction. Stan nodded and left.
“Sorry, sir. Apologies. Kids today, you know. Still training them.”
Bruno nodded. This man knew respect.
“We don’t have mushroom sausage, I’m really very sorry. We have all of these… though if you’d like to wait, I can make a fresh mushroom sausage. It’ll take a bit of time, but it’ll be delicious.”
“For that wait, I assume this’ll be on the house,” growled Bruno.
The man’s hesitation was barely noticeable. “Of course, sir. Can I offer you a drink meanwhile?”
Bruno grunted, asked for a Coke, and let the man get to his pizza-making. He took a couple of sips of the drink and realized that Snob hadn’t rejoined him. He was probably taking a leak or crying. Fuck him. Kids these days showed no respect.
Bruno remembered walking into a deli with Al Jassry when he was young. Al was always all manners and politeness, with his ‘how do you do’ here and the ‘good morning to ya’ there. He never raised his voice and rarely used foul language. But people respected him. That deli had gone silent as a graveyard when they’d walked in. Two girls had slipped out once they’d had a seat, a man who entered after them had tipped his hat to ‘Mr. Jassry,’ and most memorably of all, some scrawny looking piece of shit had approached and offered to pay for their lunch. Said something about gratitude.
“No need, Nelson. Thank you.”
The man had nodded and returned to his spot in silence, where some sad slop of soup sat waiting for him.
That was fucking respect. He watched the man with the mustache prepare the dough and pour tomato sauce on it. Careful, skilled, and quick. This guy was older. He knew how things worked. He’d considered smacking the kid earlier, but he’d reward the older man’s respect by simply accepting the meal and the gratitude for the honor of hosting him. Yeah. Gratitude.
Where the hell was Snob? He got up and went to the side door, pushed it open a bit, felt the cold in his face, and stopped. Walked back a step or two. Where the hell was Snob? Sure, the kid was an idiot, but this wasn’t like him at all. Something had happened. Fuck. He wasn’t stepping outside for shit, fuck that. Were they out there?
He checked the behind the bar. Mustache was spreading ingredients on the pizza (‘lay them on thick’, he thought), and the kid was nowhere to be seen, but he heard the some snaps and clatters that told him that he was still in the back. Bruno poked his head in to take a look, and there he was, arranging some jars on the shelf. He thought about givin’ the kid a wallop for earlier, but decided against it. There was something going on. This wasn’t the time.
Well, shit. He wasn’t gonna step outside. If they wanted him, they’d have to come in and get him. The spot at the bar wouldn’t do, though. He took a seat at the corner booth, pulled his Python out of his pocket, and cocked the hammer while keeping it hidden.
Then he saw the coke on the counter. Fuck. He got thirsty when he was nervous.
“Hey. Bring me my drink, will ya?”
The man, having just finished with the sausage, glanced around. He saw Bruno in the booth and the coke on the counter, and looked between the two a couple of times, mild confusion turning into understanding. He knew Bruno had gone to the door and then immediately returned and taken a new seat.
The man wiped his hands without a wash and quickly grabbed the bottle and strode over to Bruno. “Of course, sir. Just a moment, I’ll put the pie in the oven for you.” Then he stepped into the back and the door closed. The lock clicked.
Bruno knew then.

[Author’s notes: I initially wanted this to be the end of a story, but that’s not really how it came out. The end could’ve been a bit better, but I rushed the last couple of sentences to make sure I got them in because I was out of time. The whole scene feels a bit clichéd. Also, the way I envisioned Stan (tall, broad, fit, Nordic-looking, slightly dopey face) didn’t really fit in with the scene. Fortunately, I didn’t describe him in the text.]
