30 Minutes Human # 10
Road Trip, Full Bladder, Mutual Attraction, Diner, Disappearance
July 28, 2025

The problem isn’t having a full bladder. We’ve all had those, we learned to deal with them growing up, and they kinda come with the territory of being mammals in constant need of hydration. “You can’t always just pee,” my uncle Alphonse used to say.
The problem is when you’re on the back seat of a car under two layers of people and you’ve been chugging soda water like a maniac all night. The external pressure on your full bladder, plus the gaseous consequences of the “soda” part of the soda water, make for a combination of factors that can only be rendered worse if you’re physically attracted to one of the people sitting on you as the car speeds over bumps, holes, and whatever other obstacles lay on the path.
As it happens, I am. Sherry’s 75% sitting on me (the other 25% is Quiet Al, but he I’m not attracted to), the battle raging between liquid pressure and hormonal stimulation has recently turned into an alliance, and under no circumstances can I withdraw my hand from my lap. I sit and pray that our destination soon approaches, because I don’t want to face the possibility of her requesting that I remove it. I’d prefer the discomfort of an organ-bloating liter of soda water for a year straight.
“I need to pee,” says Angela. Fuck.
“We’ll be there in like five minutes,” comes the response from the front.
“Actually five minutes? I really need to go.” When this is met with silence, she insists: “Guys, I really need to go.”
“Dude, I don’t want Angie-juice all over me. Let’s pull over.”
“Oh my god, Horace. Did you really just say that?” asks Sherry.
“I don’t mean it like that, I mean—” I can both see and feel him growing red despite that I can neither look at nor touch him.
“Dude, let’s pull over,” I say. We’ll all pee. Go from there. I’ll just sit somewhere else or something. Or sit on Sherry, instead of under her. Sure.
“Seriously, five minutes. Four, now. Look, look at the sign,” says Enrique from the front.
We all see a big green sign flash past us: FENTON SPOT, 1 MI. I can do one mile. So can Angela. Thank fuck.
* * *
It takes me a moment to gather my wits before I step out of the restroom. First, a breath or two to center myself again. That was a miserable series of leaks; I had to take a two-minute break between the first and second so as to allow the back half to trickle down. 
Now that my mind is not so distracted by a balloon of fluid in my lower torso, I can contemplate the fact that Sherry kept her hands on my thigh and knee the entire ride. Sure, she was sitting on me, and sure, it probably made sense for her to support herself thus, but even so. She didn’t mind touching me, for whatever that’s worth.
I’m about to step back out before I realize that I have to pee one more time. Way too much soda water, man.
* * *
They’re all at the table, and to my dismay, Sherry’s sitting at the opposite corner. I don’t even glance at her. Play it cool.
“What are we getting?” I ask.
“Two pitchers of pink lemonade,” says Horace. “They’ll be modified upon arrival.” He’s hiding a box of vodka in his jacket pocket, and Denzo can buy more for us as the evening evolves.
“Where’s Angie?” I ask.
“Still in the restroom.”
“Getting rid of all that Angie-juice?” snickers Enrique. Horace just grins—that one he’s going to get shit for, not her. If they’d not already had a thing a last year it might’ve been hurtful, but the unlikely friendship that followed their breakup guarantees that there’ll be no consequences or wounded feelings here.
“I’m gonna go check on her,” says Sherry. She scoots out and heads for the exit door. We’re discussing possible appetizers when she returns a few minutes later. “She isn’t there, guys. I checked the car as well, nothing.”
“Did you look in the guy’s room?” asks Horace. It doesn’t come out with malice or mockery, so the question is taken at face value.
“No, should I?”
“Sure. Maybe there wasn’t any paper in the ladies’,” says Denzo. Leila, near-mute as always (though not as much as Quiet Al), nods to this. She tends to support whatever position he takes. I’m not sure how their conversations work when behind closed doors, but maybe neither of them is in it for the conversation.
As they go back to discussing appetizers, I rub my fingers on the booth’s yellow tabletop. I’m not sure what the material is, formica? I rub them harder and it gives a bit, like clay. How odd. The corner of the table has the same give, and I do my best to put it as it was after deforming it a tad.
Before I can point this out to the rest, Sherry returns. “She’s not there. Not in either bathroom, not the car. I called her name out a couple of times, and nothing.”
I’m struck by a mad instinct to step outside and help her search, so I stand up. Horace and Denzo follow, with the latter telling his girl, “give me a sec,” as if the instruction were necessary. Now it’s a search party; this is already an eventful evening.
Three of us head outside while Horace approaches the wait counter, perhaps to ask the staff there. As we step on the pavement, the single light above flickers.
“How do you know this place again?” I ask Denzo.
“I stopped here for lunch once, on the way out. Thought it was pretty good, not too expensive.”
I don’t respond and glance around. The diner’s yellow-and-red aesthetic looks as permanent and old-but-not-worn as anything from its time. The parking lot holds four vehicles, including ours. Two sedans, one van, our station wagon.
We try the restrooms and find nothing. Then Sherry and I walk to the back and Denzo goes the other way, toward the road.
It’s dark behind the diner. A slope of dewy grass leads to woods; the only construction here is a couple of feet of pavement that circle the building. I take this path and Sherry follows.
“Do you think she’s back there?”
I stop and turn toward her, the romantic possibilities of our immediate predicament suddenly and intoxicatingly evident. But she’s worried about her friend. This wouldn’t be a good moment. She seems comfortable with me, though. Focus, man. Find Angie.
“Maybe. Let’s do a full circle and meet Denz.”

[Authors’ notes: The characters here are all 19-21. No idea what happened to Angie, but between you and I, Sherry’s into the narrator almost as much as he’s into her. Is this a horror story, a crime story, an unexplained disappearance, an ultimately irrelevant episode in a romance between these two characters? Also, I had to correct an error relating to human physiology as soon as I finished, feel free to take a guess as to what that was.]
