30 Minutes Human # 2
Teacher, Unemployed, Marriage, Retail
July 14, 2025

Hugo walked out of the room. He was angry and didn’t know where he was going, but he knew that he didn’t want to be in there anymore.
“Hugo. Hugo!!”
He ignored her and stormed down the hall, quietly daring anything to get in his way. He’d kick it. A trashcan, a plastic trashcan. He’d kick it and send papers flying everywhere.
“Hugo, come back here. We need to discuss this.”
He passed Diggleby’s door.
“Hugo!!”
He knew it was the last call he’d get, but continued at the same speed.
“Mr. Appson, come back here right now.”
There was something new in her tone, something dangerous, something authoritative. Another step and he’d lose his job. He didn’t care. At the end of the hall, he pushed out and exited the building.
* * *
“So you just left, you walked out?”
“Yes.”
He was pacing back and forth in the room, still angry, still furious, but now also worried. He remembered kids peeking out of the doors he passed, watching him. There was no going back there. They were suddenly a single-income household.
“So what are we going to do?”
She just sat there, watching him. She was leaning forward, back straight, her hands clasped between her legs.
“I don’t know. But not that anymore. Not ever again. Fuck education, fuck teaching, fuck everything.” He paused. That wasn’t a good note to close on. “No, not everything. Not you, not us, not this house. Only fuck them.”
“Please stop talking like that. What do we do now? We don’t have much in the bank, and what I make isn’t going to cover us long.”
He sat next to her on the bed. “I get another job. Today. It won’t be hard to find a similar salary. Beating teacher pay is an elementary school sport. But, no, not today. Monday. I want a couple of days. I need a couple of days.”
He breathed out and stopped, like it was out of him. Then he leaned over and kissed her on the cheek.
“I’m sorry. I’m sorry I’ve put you in this position. I just couldn’t do I anymore. God knows I tried, but what children, education, and teachers are to them… The way the people up high make decisions that make no sense and benefit nobody but their political—”
Her eyes were moistening up, and he stopped. She’d heard this enough times. He went to the bathroom and pulled a couple of tissues from the duckie box, then returned to her side.
“Anya. We’ll get through this. I couldn’t do that anymore, but this is liberating. Even if what I find doesn’t inspire me like the idea of being a teacher once did, at least I’ll know what I’m into. I can’t lie to myself anymore. It’s bad for me, bad for you.”
Huey peeked around the door again, concerned. But now that Hugo wasn’t storming around the room and they were sitting, he figured it was safe to enter. He put his head on Hugo’s lap.
“Hey fella. Don’t worry, everything’s okay. Everything’s better, actually. Everything’s going to be better here. Just you wait.”
He said the last bit again a bit softer, well aware that it was more for himself than for anybody else in the room.
The cat passed by the open doorway, glanced in, and continued on his way to his toy box.
* * *
A number of kids, sometimes greater, sometimes lesser, graduated from High School straight into retail every year, so he had a decent idea of what paid well. There was general consensus about Trader Joe’s and Costo being the best dollar in town, so he went to the latter first. He didn’t spend too much time there, though, after seeing the manager berate three different people for seemingly harmless things before he could even talk to the guy. He drove to Trader Joe’s.
He’d rarely shopped here, and that only when he wanted a treat for Anya. This spot was for people making way more than what the two of them earned. But every time he walked in he felt that the atmosphere was pleasant, and everybody seemed nice and quiet enough.
“Mr. Appson! Hey!”
Julie Neighbors was fixing the signs outside the store.
“Julie! Hey, great to see you! How’ve you been?” She’d never been a great student, but she’d always been pleasant, and she always worked hard enough to pass. She was one of those who’d not found her calling yet, but he was sure there was something great for her out there.
“Just fine, Mr. Appson.” She hesitated, which told him that she knew. But she still tried to make conversation: “Those kids this year reading their books? You still putting them through Slaughterhouse Five?”
He smiled and nodded, and she looked down.
“You’ve heard, huh?”
“Yes, Mr. Appson. Everybody’s heard.”
“Well, I need a job. And I’m done with teaching. What’s it like here?”
She looked at him, so slightly downwards. Julie was lanky and a bit physically awkward, but she’d always done well on the volleyball court. She brushed a few strands of her dirty blonde hair aside; he knew she’d fix her ponytail again soon, as she always did so several times per hour.
“You’d like to work at the TJ’s?”
“Not as a permanent thing, but I need to make some money. And this always seemed like a nice place.”
“Well, it is!” She brightened up. “I worked two jobs before this, but I always had an application in, and I’d pop in periodically. They pay well, people are nice, the customers aren’t di—sorry, the customers are nice too—and Andy treats everybody well.”
“That sounds promising. Do you know if they’re hiring?”
“Oh my God Mr. Appson, I just realized, they are, and it’s perfect for you! One of the cashiers left last week, and Andy’s always picky when he hires cashiers. He prefers to spend a while looking at different people until he finds somebody he really likes, somebody who will be good to the customers and make the store look good. I heard that they like him in regional and that he could get a promotion if this store does well. But that’s gossip, anyway, I think he’d love you, would you like to be a cashier?”
As she said the last words, her eyes darkened a bit. He was about to nod, but instead asked, “What’s wrong?”
“You want to be a cashier, Mr. Appson? You were one of the best teachers. Annie and Abhishek both decided to study English because of you, and that’s just in my period. And I just thought of my Uncle Sammy.”
He didn’t have anything good to respond. “Yeah. Well. They’re gonna do great, both of them.” He made an uncertain movement with his hands, sighed, and walked in the store.

[Author’s notes: I was in a bad mood when I started writing this one, but the conversation with Anya softened me up. I’d like to know more about what happens with these characters, they seem like good people. Except the cat, but cats will be cats.]
