30 Minutes Human # 1
Steampunk, Subway, Detective, Restaurant
July 13, 2025

He was feeling hungry, but there weren’t any visible options on the street before him. He walked past two old bookshops, a pet store, an antiques boutique, and a Raf-N-Lay, and everything else was closed. He didn’t care for Yundays, but they were when he felt most at home in the city.
He’d have to finish his task in the late afternoon, or perhaps the following day. Being hungry didn’t help him think, and the sun was already on its way down. By the time he’d processed whatever sandwich or goop he eventually found, it wouldn’t make any sense to keep looking.
The steps down to the Welterway were grimy. The street-cleaners’ strike had gone long by this point, and he suspected that exploring the mess of newspapers in the corner might even produce a print from the previous month. It was no wonder that folks had stopped going out for walks as much as they used to.
That and the Eslabon, of course. People generally tried to avoid having their livers eaten. “Or at least not for free,” he imagined Nennie saying.
There were a couple of people in the station. More than he expected. Sometimes, when the streets were that empty, he forgot that he shared the town with millions. But no, the city lived. He wasn’t its king, emperor, or sole owner. Just another schmoe up to something.
A stray serval appeared opposite the tracks and picked at a lone pack of chips on the ground. Like many others, he’d been amused by the fact that the Welter workers had refused to join the cleaners on the strike. Amused until that had resulted in a longer strike, of course, but at least the underground was clean.
That was probably why there were people down here. They probably didn’t even want a ride anywhere.
His suspicions were confirmed when, upon the wagon pulling up a few minutes later, only one of the others on the platform boarded with him. The others continued to stand, sit, or lay where they were. One of them looked at him, blinked, and then returned his attention to the paperback he was reading. That one had food, he noted. He remembered that he was hungry.
The horses clipped along at their usual pace as he looked out the window while thinking no particular thing. Sometimes the darkness in the Welter was therapeutic, sometimes it was depressing, and sometimes it just helped him zone out. The third option was just fine with him that day.
He got off at the Bronihan stop and climbed the stairs to Joey’s. It was closed. Damn. So was Chikken Nikken next door, but the little pazza shop in the alley had its lights on. It wasn’t great, but it would have to do.
“What can I get you?” asked the server.
“What’s—just give me ham and cheese. No, mushrooms. And chives. And ham and cheese.”
“We don’t make that.”
“Can’t you?”
The kid hesitated. This was the most excitement he’d have all day.
“Come on,” said Null. “I’ll give you an extra %3.”
“Make it %5, and you’ll get extra bacon bits.”
Null nodded, and the pazza-man got to work.
There was a cat on the counter. It licked its paws and watched the server prepare the pazza, then decided to approach when the bacon bits emerged.
“Shh. Not for you. Get back there,” said the kid with a shove.
“Is he yours?” asked Null.
“My girlfriend’s. Taking care of him for a few days.”
Despite himself, Null decided to make conversation.
“How come? She out of town?”
“Went to visit her family up in Illis Ile. Her aunt was worried about her. Didn’t want her in town with all this stuff going on. So she went up to spend a few days with them and give them peace of mind.”
The cat saw its chance and went for the bacon bit container, and the kid barely had time to catch it before it toppled over.
“Damnit. Ok, off the counter.” He lifted him down to the floor.
“He’s a pain in the ass. She spoils him. If it weren’t for the servals, I’d let him roam around outside.”
Null didn’t respond to that. He figured he’d pick up the relevant thread.
“So your lady’s family is worried about the Eslabon?”
“It was the last straw. It’s always something in town, isn’t it? The horse plague down in the Welter was a big thing. And before that a friend of hers was stabbed in a mugging. Now with this thing going around and eating people… I’m half expecting them to convince her to stay. They’re sure as shit gonna try.”
The pazza went into the oven. He poked the steam holes in the sides and stuck the myrrh twig in, then closed the door.
“You’re a nook,” he observed upon getting a better look at Null. “Are you working on anything related to this?”
“Yeah. Talking to some folks.”
“How’d you get into being a nook?”
Null looked at the kid, and the kid held his gaze.
“How much time until it’s ready?”
“Five minutes. Supposed to be four, but that extra bit of time helps the cheese really seep in. More flavor. Any more than that, though, and it’ll burn.”
“You been doing this for a while?”
“About a year. Gotta pay for school somehow.”
Null nodded. The smell was getting to his stomach. He was starving.
“Remember when it killed that girl around here, a couple months back? I think I saw it.”
“Hmm?” Null was thinking of the pazza, but that caught part of his attention.
“Yeah, I told the cops, but they didn’t pay much attention to me. And there weren’t any nooks around here for that.”
“What did you see?” Null figured there were two minutes to go. Tops.
“We were empty that day, or at least at that time. The sun was starting to set. And I saw this big purple whirl go—”
“The girl died at night.”
“Do you want me to tell you what I saw? Your pazza will be ready in a minute, and then you can get out of here.”
Null looked at him again. The kid was angry. Probably hated being stuck in here. The cat jumped back on the counter, but with no bacon bits to attack, cozied up for a nap instead.

[Author’s notes: It may take a while for me to get in the groove again. Spent too much time in dialogue and worldbuilding, and nothing happened. Decent combination of real-world and steampunk. The characters were fine, and I liked the kid. Also the Welterway.]
