30 Minutes Human # 11
Absence, Quiet, Friendship, Injury, Job Loss
July 29, 2025

She poured milk into the bowl slowly, with measure, until it was about half full. It brought her peace to do it that way, without any droplets splattering, without the inner edge of the bowl becoming wet where it didn’t need to be. Shassi waited patiently beside her until she was done and only approached for a drink once she stood up.
All her activities had become quiet and peaceful like this. How she folded the green woolen blanket over the armchair, how she arranged the shoes in her closet—her shoes only—how she carefully put everything she bought at the grocery store in its place, be it in the fridge or in one of the cupboards. The order that resulted from this was fine, and he would’ve liked it, but what she really enjoyed was acting as he would’ve acted. It made him feel present.
She could only have this level of control at home, of course. Once she stepped outside and was on the bus, or at the mansion, or when running errands, she had to adjust to the speed of others. She couldn’t channel him there. But that didn’t matter, because home was where the heart was.
She hadn’t really wanted to visit Sandra that afternoon but saw no way to avoid it. Sandra had been tirelessly supportive and patient in the first months after it happened, always taking her sandwiches and sweets and dropping by to read her an amusing article or simply to be there with her, in silence or with music. Now that Sandra was the one who needed support, it was right for her to provide it.
Moreover, Mitchell would’ve suggested that she do so as well. He always put others before himself. Perhaps she’d feel better if she followed his example and adopted that attitude as well.
The bus was quiet on her ride over. There were no major events in town after the big fair that ended the previous Sunday, so the passengers were almost entirely locals on the way to purchase something or visit someone. Like her. She was just another local on her way to visit a friend. Nothing more than that.
Sandra’s house was the second house over from the corner on Reckwood street. She’d liked the place the moment she’d seen it from the curb: the roof had been painted pink, but harmlessly, inoffensively, fashionably, mutedly pink, and the two trees on the front yard had matched that color perfectly. Sven didn’t particularly care where they lived as long as she liked it, so they’d barely had to step inside before nodding to the real estate agent with a beaming smile that would pay for the agent’s supper for the following months.
“Elisa,” said Sven upon opening the door. He looked surprised, and she wondered how long he’d expected her to keep to herself. A part of her felt strengthened by the fact that she was subverting expectations like this.
“Hey Sven,” she said with a small but genuine smile. He knew why she was here, why force the conversation? But alright, that was fine. She could do it. “I’m here to see Sandra. How’s she doing?”
“Of course!” Snapping out of an awkwardly blank mind, he stepped aside. “She’s in high spirits, as always. But—” the volume of his voice dropped and he paused. “We got some news from the doctor’s office this morning. Did she share with you?”
“No, what did he say?” For the first time in months Mitchell flew from her mind entirely.
“Recovery is going to take longer than we expected. Or that we hoped. We were aiming for six weeks, but it might be closer to sixteen.”
“Sixteen?!” Her whisper came out much louder than intended. “Oh no. Has she told Mr. Henry yet?”
“No. She’s pretty sure she knows how that would go. So am I,” he added, and she nodded.
“Alright. I’ll go see her now. Thanks for telling me. It’ll be fine,” she said unconvincingly to nobody in particular.
Tobias’ room was on the way to his mother’s, but it was empty. The house was too quiet to currently hold an overimaginative four-year-old; he was probably with his aunt or at a friend’s house.
“Hey!” she said, stepping into Sandra’s room. Her friend had been lying in bed, pad and pencil in hand, but as soon as she saw Elisa she put them down and flashed a beaming smile.
“Oyeeee you came! What are you doing here?!” Reflexively she tried to sit up a bit and winced. Elisa stepped over and helped her sit comfortably. “Eli, you came! This is…” but at that point her smile turned into a sad scowl and she dropped her look. Her eyes watered. “You came.”
“How could I not come? How are you feeling?”
Sandra’s response ignored the moment that had just passed: it was ebullient, positive, loud, casual. She was doing fantastically well and would be out of bed in no time. She might need a cast or crutches but would get past them quickly, and then she’d be back at it in no time. She wasn’t gonna be kept down. No ma’am. Up and around in no time.
Elisa knew that there was no point in pretending otherwise, so put the topic on the table. “Sandra, Sven told me.”
Her friend’s smile froze, now evident a forced, unauthentic expression. She dropped her eyes again and Elisa thought she might weep, but instead Sandra looked back up at her and wiped an earlier tear from the side of her nose.
“Yeah. No good, huh? How am I gonna get a job?”
“You don’t know anything yet, not for sure. Tell Mr. Henry. Maybe you can figure something out with him.
“Come on. We both know who we’re talking about. His patience with all this is stretched to a breaking point; somebody else will be sitting at my desk by Friday.”
“So what are you going to do? Just sit there and feel sorry for yourself?”
It came out a lot harsher than she intended it, and Sandra was momentarily caught off guard, but then they both realized that the words had been meant for Elisa herself. They had been cry and complaint from the heart to its owner. Elisa realized that she’d not thought about Mitchell since she’d entered her friend’s house.
After a moment, Elisa said, “don’t worry about that for now. Sven can take some extra hours, and I can help too, however is useful. But for now what we need you to do is to heal that hip properly.”

[Author’s notes: I’m not sure why I try to shoehorn multiple name ethnicities into these so often. I suppose the current Hollywood formula has a way of creeping into how one creates for public consumption. On another note, I liked how this one evolved as I wrote it: it started as a story about loss, and ended as a story about friendship and support.]
