30 Minutes Human # 3
Ponies, Rainshowers, Village, Blacksmith
July 15, 2025

“An April rainshower?!”
“Yes!! And it’ll be absolutely grand, it’ll be lovely!”
Whitestar couldn’t believe her ears. An April shower this late in the year could make the orchids bloom, it could make the pinecones glow, it could make the silkworms emerge when deep into their sleep and weave their craft off-season.
“Are you sure?”
“My gammy told me that it could happen, that it could be done. The elders did it when Ma was very young, it can happen again!”
Whitestar listened in awe and looked around the hill, suddenly seeing everything in a different light. The forest at the foot of the hill stopped looking like an impediment, but like a possibility; the cliffs at the North now felt inviting. She didn’t look to the South.
“Let’s go, Merrybell!”
They bounded down toward the road, and in no time were galloping across the plain toward Deer Valley. Her mother would be beside herself with joy, as would Lila, and the entire village might see the possibility of turning everything around and join the initiative. It could be the very miracle they’d all been hoping for.
A flock of crows passed overhead and a dark thought entered her mind. If this could be done, why hadn’t it been done? If it could be done, why was the possibility never talked about? Was there a price to this, as there had been for the Fast Harvest of when she was young, or for the great rains that made Joyfellow leave?
“Merrybell?”
Her friend didn’t hear her; she was moving as fast as her legs could take her, and her eyes shone with the possibility of their families being saved.
“Merrybell!”
She looked back and, catching the expression on Whitestar’s face, slowed down, then stopped.
“What is it?”
Whitestar explained her concern, and when she was done speaking, there was silence between them for a moment.
“There probably is a price to pay,” Merrybell said eventually. “When my gammy talks about it, she looks sad. And she only ever mentioned it a couple of times, when it was only the two of us.”
“Perhaps we should ask her first.”
“No, not her. Come.”
They went off again, perhaps just as quickly, but the spring now gone from their hoofbeats. Each of them faded off into the darker possibilities of what they were about to propose, and they spoke no more until the palisade was in sight. Merrybell veered right, toward the workshops.
“Where are we going?”
“Let’s go to Carn’s. We can ask him.”
“Carn?!”
The sun was starting to rise over the distant hills. The daylilies shone in the light, and the occasional daisy showed its petals and seemed to turn eastward. There were a few light clouds in the sky, and the dew made the field look like it was covered with scattered diamonds. But neither of the two ponies was enjoying the bloom.
“Who else? Who calls it straight, who’s been here long enough to know?”
“He scares me a little. And my mother warned me to stay away from him once.” She told Merrybell of the night the stable door fell off its hinges.
Merrybell looked at her and merely responded “come on,” then galloped off. After a moment, Whitestar followed.
The harvesters were already out when they crossed the gate, and she heard a greeting from a couple of them, but she didn’t return it. Carn’s cabin was on the main path, a few houses in, to the right. Merrybell had already knocked when she came to the door.
It opened a few moments later, and though it was early, Carn’s shop was set up and ready for business, his bellows were at hand, and his face suggested that he was expecting them to raise a hoof and ask a favor.
“Yes? How are you ladies?”
“Carn, can we talk?”
He blinked at this. The white hairs from his mane fell over his eyes, and he shook his head to move them out of the way.
“Of course. Come on in.”
There was a space to the side that was normally used for waiting. They stood there for a moment, and when neither was forthcoming, he asked, “What is it?” Then, softer, “how can I help you?”
“Carn,” began Merrybell, “is it true that you can summon April showers this late in the year? My gammy said it had been done once. And imagine if we could, we could…”
She trailed off and looked up at him, then down again. Whitestar had kept her eyes fixed on the fire as her friend spoke.
“Darla told you about that? She shouldn’t have done that. My.” He looked at each of them for a moment. “Have you been out all night?”
Carn stepped to the back for a moment and returned with some water and flavored barley. He nudged it toward them. “Help yourselves. You must be hungry.” Whitestar surprised herself by diving in; she’d not had anything to eat since sunset. But Merrybell ignored the gesture and raised a steady gaze to him.
“Tell me.”
“You’re not little foals anymore, so I’ll answer your question. Yes, you can bring April showers. You can do it all year, in fact. But the price you’d pay, particularly in winter, which fortunately isn’t here yet, is more than anybody here would be willing to consider, regardless of the circumstances.”

[Author’s notes: My first thought was that this would be a children’s story. They’re two young, excited ponies in a friendly/light fantasy land. I figured there would be colorful descriptions, adventures, and simple dialogue. But it quickly devolved into a darker, more formulaic scenario, albeit with ponies and horses. That’s why I get for sleeping three hours last night.]
